School Dance editorial (#3982)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: content/6_Advanced/Max_Flow.mdx

<Problems problems="match" />

> It is more than recommended to solve the first problem - Download Speed - in the section before jumping to this one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's recommended that you solve Download Speed before trying this one.
```

Author: Done

An **augmenting path** is built upon the alternating path and unmatched nodes at both ends - the nodes are not included in $M$.

Tha maximum matching $M$ can be further improved if and only if an augmenting path is found in $M$, otherwise $M$ is the maximum matching. It may seem difficult to understand, but the main idea is: ``The maximum matching can be further improved as long as the alternating sequence can be extended ``. For a better understanding, you can imagine the shoelaces as an alternating path in a bipartite graph - or the sneakers.

The algorithm described above is called the [Hopcroft-Karp algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hopcroft%E2%80%93Karp_algorithm).

**Time Complexity: $\mathcal{O}(E\sqrt{V})$**

Here is an animation of how the code below works:

<video width="960" height="720" controls>
	<source src="/animations/Hopcroft-Karp.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
</video>

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>
```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

> const int INF = 1e9;

Reviewer: int_max maybe?

Author: It's safer not tu put INT_MAX, could overflow

const int INF = 1e9;

int n, m, k;
// dist[node] = the position of node in the alternating path

> vector<int> Pair, dist;

Reviewer: can you rename `Pair` to something else so it isn't an eyesore

Reviewer 2: bump

Author: Alright done

bool bfs() {
	queue<int> q;
	// The alternating path starts with unmatched nodes
	for (int node = 1; node <= n; node++) {
		if (!Pair[node]) {
			q.push(node);
			dist[node] = 0;
		} else {
			dist[node] = INF;
		}
	}

	dist[0] = INF;

	while (!q.empty()) {
		int node = q.front();
		q.pop();
		if (dist[node] >= dist[0]) continue;
		for (auto son : g[node]) {
			// If the pair of son is matched
			if (dist[Pair[son]] == INF) {
				dist[Pair[son]] = dist[node] + 1;
				q.push(Pair[son]);
			}
		}
	}
	// Returns true if an alternating path has been found
	return dist[0] != INF;
}

// Returns true if an augmenting path has been found starting from vertex node
bool dfs(int node) {

> 	if (node == 0) return true;

Reviewer: braces

Author: Fair

	for (auto son : g[node]) {
		if (dist[Pair[son]] == dist[node] + 1 && dfs(Pair[son])) {
			Pair[node] = son;
			Pair[son] = node;
			return true;
		}
	}
	dist[node] = INF;
	return false;
}

> int Hopcroft_Karp() {

Reviewer: rename to `hopcroft_karp`

	int match = 0;
	// While there is an alternating path
	while (bfs()) {
		for (int node = 1; node <= n; node++) {
			// If node is unmatched but we can match it using an augmenting path
			if (!Pair[node] && dfs(node)) { match++; }
		}
	}
	return match;
}

> // Hopcroft-Karp algorithm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Ok

int main() {
	cin >> n >> m >> k;

	dist.resize(n + m + 1);
	Pair.resize(n + m + 1);
	g.resize(n + m + 1);

	for (int i = 1; i <= k; i++) {
		int x, y;
		cin >> x >> y;

		y += n;

		g[x].push_back(y);
		g[y].push_back(x);
	}

	cout << Hopcroft_Karp() << '\n';

	for (int node = 1; node <= n; node++) {
		if (Pair[node]) { cout << node << ' ' << Pair[node] - n << '\n'; }
	}

> 	return 0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fair
